81% of Americans over the age
of 65
feel the response
by the Israeli government
is fully justified.
But just 27% of Americans 18 to 34
years old feel that way.
The humanitarian crisis
is also top of mind for many Americans.
71% of Americans feel
a lot of sympathy
for the people of Israel.
41% feel a lot of sympathy
for the Palestinian people.
Former U.N.
ambassador and 2024
Republican presidential candidate
Nikki Haley joins us now.
Ambassador Haley,
thanks so much for joining us.
If you were president right
now, would you consider using the U.S.
special operations
to rescue American hostages
being held in Gaza?
You just heard Jake Sullivan say
that one of the complications with
that is
we don't know
exactly where the hostages are,
but I'm wondering how much you
would consider such a thing.
Thanks for having me, Jake.
You know,
I think it's important
you have to tell hard truth to Americans.
And and when you're talking about this,
you know,
when you show those percentages
of what people think
and what they think we should do,
you have to be honest with them.
This is messy.
Right.
I mean,
we desperately want to get
those American hostages out.
But if you saw those kids
in the hands of those terrorists,
like with a mom heart,
it made me sick to my stomach
for all those parents
having to see their children
in those terrorists hands.
So of course, we want them out.
But why is it so easy
that we can do that?
It's because we don't know
where they are.
And I have been in those tunnels
that are massive,
that are sophisticated
and that Hamas uses to hide
equipment and ammunition
and to do their dirty work
and maybe to have those hostages.
But where are those tunnels?
They're underneath hospitals.
They're underneath schools.
They're in hard to find places.
So this is incredibly tough.
I feel, for the Israeli families.
I feel for the American families,
and I feel for any other families
who've lost a loved one
or have
someone in a hostage situation,
because it's really bleak right now.
And it's hard for anyone
to feel good about this.
We just showed images that your
your office gave us of
when you visited Israel in 2017
and the IDF took you to those tunnels
near the kibbutz in as well.
You said that
because those tunnels in Gaza are near
civilian sites, it's going to get bad.
It's already pretty bad.
Obviously, there are more than
2.3 million Palestinians in Gaza.
More than half of them are children.
Do you think the U.S., Israel, Egypt
needs to be doing more
to help these innocent Palestinian
civilians get out of harm's way,
although you just heard Jake Sullivan
say one of the problems is Hamas
is keeping
the civilians in Gaza.
They don't want them to leave.
There are a couple of things at play
here.
Hamas is going to do everything
they can to not have them leave
because guess what?
They want them all to die.
One, they want to use them
as human shields,
but two, they want to blame
Israel and show
images of dead children and say,
look at what Israel did.
But don't ever forget what Hamas did.
Don't ever forget those girls
running for their life.
Don't ever forget those babies
that were killed in cribs.
Don't ever
forget the people
that they were dragging
through the streets.
And what were they saying, Jake?
They were saying death to Israel.
Death to America.
That's who we're dealing with.
But I dealt with this
at the United Nations.
You're going to hear
all of those Arab countries
vilify Israel for what's about to happen.
You're going to hear all of them say,
how dare you not do more
for the Palestinian people?
And you know what?
We should care
about the Palestinian citizens,
especially the innocent ones,
because they didn't ask for this.
But where are the Arab countries?
Where are they?
Where is Qatar?
Where is Lebanon? Where is Jordan?
Where is Egypt?
Do you know we give Egypt over
$1,000,000,000 a year.
Why aren't they opening the gates?
Why aren't they taking the Palestinians?
You know why?
Because they know
they can't vet them
and they don't want Hamas
in their neighborhood.
So why would Israel
want them in their neighborhood?
So let's be honest with what's going on.
The Arab countries aren't doing anything
to help the Palestinians
because they don't trust
who is right,
who is good,
who is evil,
and they don't want it in their country.
So they're going to come
and blame America.
They're going to come and blame Israel
and don't fall for it
because they have the ability
to fix all of this if they wanted to.
They have the ability to go in and tell
Hamas right now
to stop what they're doing.
They have the ability to tell Hamas
to let those people out.
But you know what?
Qatar is going to continue
to work with Hamas and their leadership.
Iran's going to continue
to fund all of this and not say anything.
And who's silent?
Every one of those Arab
countries are going to be silent.
But expect for the finger
to point to Israel
and the finger
is going to point to Israel, to America.
I want you to take a
listen to this statement
that Governor Ron DeSantis made about
all I guess he's talking about,
all of the 2.3 million Palestinians.
He said
this on the campaign
trail in Iowa yesterday.
If you look at how they behave,
not all of them are Hamas,
but they are all anti-Semitic.
None of them believe in Israel's
right to exist.
Now, just for our viewers, edification,
according to recent
polling earlier this year
from the Washington Institute,
which is a pro-Israel group
using the polling of a Palestinian center
for public opinion,
62% of Gazans wanted the cease fire
with Israel to stay in place.
50% of Gazans want Hamas to stop calling
for Israel's destruction.
Want Hamas
to accept a permanent two state solution
based on the 1967 borders.
70% of Gazans
wanted the Palestinians authority
from the West Bank to take over Gaza.
So I'm not really certain
that Governor DeSantis has a real read
on the difference between Hamas
and the people of Gaza.
What was your response when you heard
what Governor DeSantis said?
You know, I dealt with this
every day for two years.
And you know, what I can tell you is
you have to realize that
whether we're talking
about Gazans and Palestinians,
you know, all of them don't.
You've got half of them.
At the time that I was there
didn't want to be under Hamas's rule.
They didn't want to have terrorists
overseeing them.
They knew
that they were living a terrible life
because of Hamas.
You had the other half
that supported Hamas
and wanted to be a part of that.
We see that with Iran
to the Iranian people
don't want to be under
that Iranian regime.
They don't.
We saw what happened.
Amasa meaning we saw how they treat them.
There are so many of these people
who want to be free
from this terrorist role.
They want to be free from all of that.
And America's
always been sympathetic
to the fact that you can separate
civilians from terrorists
and that's what we have to do.
But right now,
we can never take our eyes
off of the terrorists.
I mean, what Hamas did
was beyond thuggish, brutal and sick.
What the Iranian regime
is doing to help them is terrible.
But let's look back at what did Biden do.
Biden turned around and fell
all over himself
to get into the Iran deal.
Obama did it before that.
You gave all of this money
and what did you do?
You empowered
Iran to go
and strengthen Hamas,
strengthen Hezbollah, strengthen
the Houthis
to spread their terrorist activity.
We went and strengthened those sanctions
and decimated Iran's economy.
And what happened?
Biden has loosened the sanctions.
Now we've got the fact that he gave
6 billion and hostage money.
Okay, now you've frozen it.
But we have all these American hostages.
Guess what they're going to want?
If you gave them 6 billion
for five people and released hostages,
guess what?
They're going to be asking
for all these others that we have.
So we've created this scenario
where you've given Iran,
the Iranian regime,
too much power
and too much Poland
to be able to do this.
We've got to be strong.
We've got to have Israel's back.
And remember,
as awful as these images are,
and we have the back of Israel
because they've been hit terribly.
We have to have the back of them
when they hit back as well.
So speaking of having Israel's back,
I want you to take a
listen to what Donald Trump
had to say
about Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu a few days ago.
He has
been hurt very badly
because of what's happened here.
He was not prepared.
He was not prepared
and Israel was not prepared.
And under Trump,
they wouldn't have had it be prepared.
He went on to call Hezbollah,
which the U.S.
classifies as a terrorist group,
very smart.
He called the defense minister a jerk
and he went on and on.
This was, I think, Wednesday.
So four days
after the deadliest day
for the Jewish people
since the Holocaust.
What was your response
when you heard that?
It's why I continue to say
it is time for a new generational leader.
We've got to get past
the headlines of the past.
I mean, look,
he congratulated
the Chinese Communist Party
not too long ago.
He's saying Hezbollah is smart.
I can tell you at the United Nations
when I was there
and I dealt with all of them every day,
you don't go and compliment
any of them,
because what that does is
that makes America look weak.
It doesn't make America look strong.
It doesn't make America
have friends with them.
What you do is you show strength.
You let them know what we expect of them.
So complimenting Hezbollah
and going
and complimenting
the Chinese Communist Party
or criticize
a leader
who has just watched
so many of his citizens
brutally murdered,
it's the wrong place at the wrong time.
This isn't about Trump.
It's not about him.
It's not about what happened in the past.
We've got to look forward.
This is going to be tough days ahead
for everyone involved.
This is not the time to sit there
and bash a leader.
This is a time to sit there
and give him the support he needs,
Give the Israeli people
the support they need
and to help us get through this
in the best way possible.
Before you go,
the House still doesn't have a speaker.
For the first time in American history.
This is nearly two weeks after Kevin
McCarthy was stripped of his leadership.
They still can't even pass a resolution
condemning the Hamas attacks.
It's starting to look like
there is not one House
Republican who can get 217 votes.
Republican Congressman Austin Scott said
the chaos, quote,
makes us look like a bunch of
idiots, unquote. Is he right?
Well, I'll tell you, what's right
is under the Biden
administration, we've seen chaos within.
You can't blame the fact that you.
Can't blame that on Biden.
You can't blame this on Biden.
No, you.
Well, you have to let me finish.
We have seen chaos with inflation.
We've seen chaos
with the lack of transparency
in education.
We've seen chaos on the border.
We've seen chaos
with crime on the streets.
And now we're seeing chaos
around the world.
What I'm saying is
you can't fix Democrat chaos
with Republican chaos.
They need to get it together.
They need to get in a room
and figure out who this is going to be
and come out unified.
That's what Republicans need to do.
This is not a good look.
This is not good for our country.
We saw what happened to Israel
when they were distracted.
America looks so distracted right now.
When America is distracted,
the world is less safe.
We can't sit there
and act like this is September 10th.
We better get it together
and remember what it felt
like September 12th,
because we've got
a lot of threats around us
and a lot of chaos around us.
And we need some strength.
We need some stability.
And again,
I'll say we need a new generational
leader to right this ship.